chore: update SigLIP2 model card (#37624)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/siglip2.md

-->

<div style="float: right;">
    <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
            <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
            <img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
            <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    </div>
</div>

# SigLIP2

## Overview

> [SigLIP2](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14786) is a family of multilingual vision-language encoders, it is build upon the success of the original [SigLIP](siglip). The original image-text training objective is extended by several independently developed techniques. These include decoder-based pretraining, self-supervised losses such as self-distillation and masked prediction, as well as online data curation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SigLIP2](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14786) is a family of multilingual vision-language encoders that builds on the [SigLIP](./siglip) training recipe. It includes decoder-based pretraining, self-distillation, and masked prediction to improve dense prediction tasks (segmentation, depth estimation, etc.). This model is available in two variants:

- NaFlex supports different resolutions and maintains the native image aspect ratio
- FixRes supports fixed resolutions and is backwards compatible with [SigLIP](./siglip)
```

The model comes in two variants

> - FixRes - model works with fixed resolution images (backward compatible with SigLIP v1)
> - NaFlex - model works with variable image aspect ratios and resolutions (SigLIP2 in `transformers`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can find all the original SigLIP2 checkpoints under the [SigLIP2](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/siglip2-67b5dcef38c175486e240107) collection.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the SigLIP2 models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply SigLIP2 to different image and text tasks.

> The example below demonstrates how to generate similarity scores between texts and image(s) with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`] class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates zero-shot classification with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`] class.
```

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

image = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/pipeline-cat-chonk.jpeg"
candidate_labels = ["a Pallas cat", "a lion", "a Siberian tiger"]

pipeline = pipeline(task="zero-shot-image-classification", model="google/siglip2-base-patch16-224", device=0, torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16)

> print(pipeline(image, candidate_labels=candidate_labels))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pipeline(image, candidate_labels=candidate_labels)
```

```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

```py
import torch
import requests
from PIL import Image
from transformers import AutoProcessor, AutoModel

model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("google/siglip2-base-patch16-224", torch_dtype=torch.float16, device_map="auto", attn_implementation="sdpa")
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained("google/siglip2-base-patch16-224")

url = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/pipeline-cat-chonk.jpeg"
image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)
candidate_labels = ["a Pallas cat", "a lion", "a Siberian tiger"]

# follows the pipeline prompt template to get same results
texts = [f'This is a photo of {label}.' for label in candidate_labels]

# IMPORTANT: we pass `padding=max_length` and `max_length=64` since the model was trained with this
inputs = processor(text=texts, images=image, padding="max_length", max_length=64, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)

logits_per_image = outputs.logits_per_image
probs = torch.sigmoid(logits_per_image)

> print(f"{probs[0][0]:.1%} that image 0 is '{candidate_labels[0]}'")

Reviewer: Let's also add the NaFlex example in the `<hfoption id="AutoModel">` block too

```md
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

FixRes example
NaFlex example

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>
```

Reviewer: Oh thats a really good idea! 👍

# follows the pipeline prompt template to get same results
texts = [f'This is a photo of {label}.' for label in candidate_labels]

# IMPORTANT: we pass `padding=max_length` and `max_length=64` since the model was trained with this
inputs = processor(text=texts, images=image, padding="max_length", max_length=64, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)

logits_per_image = outputs.logits_per_image
probs = torch.sigmoid(logits_per_image)
print(f"{probs[0][0]:.1%} that image 0 is '{candidate_labels[0]}'")
```

## Notes

- Training is supported for DDP and FSDP on single-node multi-GPU setups. However, it does not use [torch.distributed](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/beginner/dist_overview.html) utilities which may limit the scalability of batch size.
- When using the standalone [`GemmaTokenizerFast`] make sure to pass `padding="max_length"` and `max_length=64` as that's how the model was trained.
- Model was trained with *lowercased* text, make sure you make the same preprocessing for your text labels.
- To get the same results as the [`Pipeline`], a prompt template of `"This is a photo of {label}."` should be passed to the processor.

> - The NaFlex variant enables processing different types of images at appropriate resolution, e.g. using a larger resolution to process document images, while at the same time minimizing the impact of aspect ratio distortion on certain inference tasks, e.g. on OCR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The NaFlex variant processes different types of images at the appropriate resolution (using a larger resolution to process document images for example), while also minimizing the impact of aspect ratio distortion for certain inference tasks like OCR.

   NaFlex resizes the input image so the height and width are multiples of the patch size after resizing. It keeps the aspect ratio distortion as low as possible and produces a sequence length of at most the desired target sequence length (`max_num_patches`). After resizing, the image is split into a sequence of patches and a mask with padding information is added.
```

-->

<div style="float: right;">
    <div class="flex flex-wrap space-x-1">
            <img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
            <img alt="FlashAttention" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%E2%9A%A1%EF%B8%8E%20FlashAttention-eae0c8?style=flat">
            <img alt="SDPA" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SDPA-DE3412?style=flat&logo=pytorch&logoColor=white">
    </div>
</div>

# SigLIP2

## Overview

[SigLIP2](https://huggingface.co/papers/2502.14786) is a family of multilingual vision-language encoders that builds on the [SigLIP](./siglip) training recipe. It includes decoder-based pretraining, self-distillation, and masked prediction to improve dense prediction tasks (segmentation, depth estimation, etc.). This model is available in two variants:

- NaFlex supports different resolutions and maintains the native image aspect ratio
- FixRes supports fixed resolutions and is backwards compatible with [SigLIP](./siglip)

> The model comes in two variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You can find all the original SigLIP2 checkpoints under the [SigLIP2](https://huggingface.co/collections/google/siglip2-67b5dcef38c175486e240107) collection.

> [!TIP]
> Click on the SigLIP2 models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply SigLIP2 to different image and text tasks.

The example below demonstrates zero-shot classification with [`Pipeline`] or the [`AutoModel`] class.

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

image = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/pipeline-cat-chonk.jpeg"
candidate_labels = ["a Pallas cat", "a lion", "a Siberian tiger"]

pipeline = pipeline(task="zero-shot-image-classification", model="google/siglip2-base-patch16-224", device=0, torch_dtype=torch.bfloat16)
pipeline(image, candidate_labels=candidate_labels)
```

</hfoption>

> <hfoption id="AutoModel - FixRes">

Reviewer: Tiny nit just to make it more compact

```suggestion
<hfoption id="AutoModel (FixRes)">
```

```py
import torch
import requests
from PIL import Image
from transformers import AutoProcessor, AutoModel

model = AutoModel.from_pretrained("google/siglip2-base-patch16-224", torch_dtype=torch.float16, device_map="auto", attn_implementation="sdpa")
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained("google/siglip2-base-patch16-224")

url = "https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/pipeline-cat-chonk.jpeg"
image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)
candidate_labels = ["a Pallas cat", "a lion", "a Siberian tiger"]

# follows the pipeline prompt template to get same results
texts = [f'This is a photo of {label}.' for label in candidate_labels]

# IMPORTANT: we pass `padding=max_length` and `max_length=64` since the model was trained with this
inputs = processor(text=texts, images=image, padding="max_length", max_length=64, return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)

logits_per_image = outputs.logits_per_image
probs = torch.sigmoid(logits_per_image)
print(f"{probs[0][0]:.1%} that image 0 is '{candidate_labels[0]}'")
```

</hfoption>

> <hfoption id="AutoModel - NaFlex">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<hfoption id="AutoModel (NaFlex)">
```
